# warjournalsfromardennesduringwwi
War journals from the Ardennes during World War I. (1914-1918)
This project is an extension of the initiative taken by the Archives départementales des Ardennes to put documents relating to World War I. in the region online. Various types of documents (newspapers, correspondence, letters, etc.) have already been digitised on the website, but they have not yet been encoded in XML-TEI. The aim of this project is to create a plain XML file template with structured list of elements, attributes, and attribute values defined with DTD that can be reused to encode all the war journals avaible on the website. TEI encoding makes it possible to describe the textual characteristics of documents, to improve their accessibility and interoperability while paying attention to their durability, and above all to facilitate electronic publication. We will use three different journals extracts as examples :
- Les carnets de guerre d’Emile Faynot de Thilay
- Le journal de guerre de Simone Camion de Vivier-au-court
- Le journal d’occupation rédigé par Henri Genesseau, boulanger à Hannogne-Saint-Martin
These three journals all have a similar structure. They are made up of blocks of text corresponding to the observations described day by day. The first part contains information about the day and sometimes even the time. The second part is a account of the day. It is also useful to use tags to highlight important information, such as the names of people, places or events. The digitized documents are under a public reuse license following the deliberations of February 2, 2018.
